JS initializers 8.0 (#30920)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/fundamentals/startup.md

The module exports either or both of the following conventional functions:

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-8.0"

<!-- UPDATE 8.0 Remove NOTE -->

> [!NOTE]
> JS initializers for Blazor Web Apps is an upcoming feature that will appear with the release of .NET 8 in mid-November.

For Blazor Web Apps:

> * `beforeWebStart(options)`: Called before the Blazor Web App starts. For example, `beforeStart` is used to customize the loading process, logging level, and other options. Receives the Blazor Web options (`options`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `beforeWebStart(options)`: Called before the Blazor Web App starts. For example, `beforeWebStart` is used to customize the loading process, logging level, and other options. Receives the Blazor Web options (`options`).
```

> * `afterWebStarted(blazor)`: Called after the Blazor Web App is ready to receive calls from JS. For example, `afterWebStarted` is used to initialize libraries by making JS interop calls and registering custom elements. The Blazor instance is passed to `afterWebStarted` as an argument (`blazor`).

Author: How about ...

```suggestion
* `afterWebStarted(blazor)`: Called after the Blazor Web App has started. For example, `afterWebStarted` can be used to register custom elements. The Blazor instance is passed to `afterWebStarted` as an argument (`blazor`). Note that JS interop can't be performed at this stage. JS interop, such as initializing libraries, is only possible after an interactive Server or WebAssembly runtime starts.
```

> * `afterWebStarted(blazor)`: Called after the Blazor Web App is ready to receive calls from JS. For example, `afterWebStarted` is used to initialize libraries by making JS interop calls and registering custom elements. The Blazor instance is passed to `afterWebStarted` as an argument (`blazor`).

Author: ```suggestion
* `afterWebStarted(blazor)`: Called after all `beforeWebStart` promises resolve. For example, `afterWebStarted` can be used to register Blazor event listeners and custom event types. The Blazor instance is passed to `afterWebStarted` as an argument (`blazor`).
```

The module exports either or both of the following conventional functions:

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-8.0"

<!-- UPDATE 8.0 Remove NOTE -->

> [!NOTE]
> JS initializers for Blazor Web Apps is an upcoming feature that will appear with the release of .NET 8 in mid-November.

For Blazor Web Apps:

> * `beforeWebStart(options)`: Called before the Blazor Web App starts. For example, `beforeStart` is used to customize the loading process, logging level, and other options. Receives the Blazor options (`options`).

Reviewer: Should this say:
```suggestion
* `beforeWebStart(options)`: Called before the Blazor Web App starts. For example, `beforeStart` is used to customize the loading process, logging level, and other options. Receives the Blazor Web options (`options`).
```
?

> * `afterWebStarted(blazor)`: Called after the Blazor Web App is ready to receive calls from JS. For example, `afterWebStarted` is used to initialize libraries by making JS interop calls and registering custom elements. The Blazor instance is passed to `afterWebStarted` as an argument (`blazor`).

Reviewer: JS interop can't yet be performed at this stage. That's only possible after an interactive Server or WebAssembly runtime starts up.

Author: What should the description be?

Reviewer: Maybe something like, "Called after all `beforeWebStart` promises resolve. For example, `afterWebStarted` can be used to register Blazor event listeners and custom event types".

> * `beforeServerStart(options, extensions)`: Called before each interactive Server runtime is started. Receives SignalR circuit start options (`options`) and any extensions (`extensions`) added during publishing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `beforeServerStart(options, extensions)`: Called before the first Server runtime is started. Receives SignalR circuit start options (`options`) and any extensions (`extensions`) added during publishing.
```

The Blazor Server initializer only gets invoked the first time a circuit is created.

> * `afterServerStarted(blazor)`: Called after each interactive Server runtime is started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `afterServerStarted(blazor)`: Called after the first interactive Server runtime is started.
```

> * `beforeWebAssemblyStart(options, extensions)`: Called before each interactive WebAssembly runtime is started. Receives the Blazor options (`options`) and any extensions (`extensions`) added during publishing. For example, options can specify the use of a custom [boot resource loader](xref:blazor/fundamentals/startup#load-client-side-boot-resources).

Reviewer: The WebAssembly runtime doesn't stop after it starts, so we can use phrasing that implies there's only ever one WebAssembly runtime:
```suggestion
* `beforeWebAssemblyStart(options, extensions)`: Called before the interactive WebAssembly runtime is started. Receives the Blazor options (`options`) and any extensions (`extensions`) added during publishing. For example, options can specify the use of a custom [boot resource loader](xref:blazor/fundamentals/startup#load-client-side-boot-resources).
```

> * `afterWebAssemblyStarted(blazor)`: Called after each interactive WebAssembly runtime is started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `afterWebAssemblyStarted(blazor)`: Called after the interactive WebAssembly runtime is started.
```

For Blazor Web Apps:

The following example demonstrates JS initializers that load custom scripts before and after the Blazor Web App has started by appending them to the `<head>` in `beforeWebStart` and `afterWebStarted`:

```javascript
export function beforeWebStart() {
  var customScript = document.createElement('script');
  customScript.setAttribute('src', 'beforeStartScripts.js');
  document.head.appendChild(customScript);
}

export function afterWebStarted() {
  var customScript = document.createElement('script');
  customScript.setAttribute('src', 'afterStartedScripts.js');
  document.head.appendChild(customScript);
}
```

The preceding `beforeWebStart` example only guarantees that the custom script loads before Blazor starts. It doesn't guarantee that awaited promises in the script complete their execution before Blazor starts.

For Blazor Server, Blazor WebAssembly, and Blazor Hybrid apps:

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

The following example demonstrates JS initializers that load custom scripts before and after Blazor has started by appending them to the `<head>` in `beforeStart` and `afterStarted`:

```javascript

> export function beforeStart() {

Author: ```suggestion
export function beforeStart(options, extensions) {
```

```javascript
export function beforeStart(options, extensions) {
export function beforeStart() {
  var customScript = document.createElement('script');
  customScript.setAttribute('src', 'beforeStartScripts.js');
  document.head.appendChild(customScript);
}

> export function afterStarted(blazor) {

Reviewer: What's the reason for removing these parameters?

Author: I'll reverse it ... they just weren't used in the example. Np ... I'll put them back.

> export function afterStarted() {

Author: ```suggestion
export function afterStarted(blazor) {
```
